- Fri 2025-08-23
- First draft, lightly polished, 00:20, just for fun innit


I think I have a pretty good idea of how you'll be feeling right about now. Your brain is probably abuzz with things to write about - there'll be the new mental move, a fun new bit of phenomenology - "maybe *this* could be something I *write about*!" - that keeps pinging in an excitingly newly spotlit part of your brain, a feeling of energy and focus and purpose, etc. Possibility and novelty, promise.

And then, within probably I'd say 12 hours or less (I see it happen all the time, countless times with countless people, it'd be funny to witness if it didn't ruin so many lives) how the very excitement and feeling of abundance and meaning darkens, how quickly the abundance turns to a kind of cognitive/creative algal bloom, how quickly the feeling of inexhaustible avenues of self-expression starts to block out the light, turns to a subtle choking despair, "there's too much, there's too much". 

And not only is there too much, but it's all banal, amateur, been said a million times. And how can you take what feels so true and urgent and render it in words, and who is it for anyway, and will you ever be excellent at anything, as isn't that the point of all this, to discover that one thing that you were made to do, and do it better than it has been done before? And oh god, what if it never comes, what if you miss it, what if you don't have what it takes, what if it passed you by already. 

And what are you even trying to do? You don't know, do you? What if your whole worldview is wrong, a lie, downstream of myths that you would not endorse, fundamentally off somehow. How do you know? Does anyone know? 

The fact that your second writeup went existential this quick does not bode well. But then again, perhaps it does. Talk about the "age of anxiety", am I right? Post-modern, meaning crisis, uncertainty-grappling. Humans are a Strange Loop of self-referential illusory bullshit, interpretation and understanding, no ground truth, the anxiety of having no anchor, adrift in the wind, fashioning a sail from disintegrating concepts and false premises, forever buffeted. 

But anyway, all that to say - welcome to the rodeo. The only trick is to not get bucked by the bronco. Who would say that a smooth and bump-free ride is the goal, right?